In this lecture, let's update our format to conditionally render the paragraph block.
We may not want this option to be available on all blocks.
We can limit the scope of our format to a specific set of blocks by querying the state for the currently
selected block.
Let's get started by opening the neon format JS file.
At the top of the file.
Import the use select from the WordPress slash data package.
The active lock can be retrieved with a use select function.
After grabbing this value, we can conditionally render the format for a specific block.
Let's look at how that's done at the top of the edit function.
Call the use select function.
In the arrow function except the select function.
Next or turn the following value.
Select core slash block editor dot get selected block.
The core block ed storage has access to functions related to the Gutenberg Editors State.
For example, we can call the get selected block function to grab the currently active block.
After returning this value, let's store the results in a variable called selected block.
Let's take advantage of this variable for toggling the format in the return statement.
Surround the component with a fragment.
Conditionally rendering the root element can cause errors.
It's recommended to surround root components or elements with fragments for conditionally rendering
them.
After surrounding the elements, add the following expression selected block question mark dot name
equals equals equals.
Core slash paragraph and.
The selected block variable may be empty if the user has not selected a block.
This variable will be empty just to make sure we're using the optional chaining operator to prevent
an error from being thrown.
The name property contains the name of the block.
In this example, we're checking if the selected block is the paragraph block.
Let's move the component after the and operator.
Time to test our code in the browser.
Refresh the Gutenberg Editor.
I'm going to type inside a paragraph block.
After doing so, I can open the toolbar for a list of formats.
The neon format continues to appear in the toolbar.
However, if I add the alert box component, things will be different.
This time, the neon format has disappeared from the options.
By toggling the formats, we can prevent our format from being applied to custom blocks.
It's up to you to decide what blocks can support your format.